# ShinyApp-Judgmental-Forecasting

This is a shiny app designed to investogate the value of judgmental forecasts incoporated by experts. The purpose of this study is to analyse if experts judgment can add value to the statistical forecasts. 


We use the real-world time series where they are blended with promotions. Participants were given 24 different sales series representing the actual sales of different products in a company. Each series has 24 observations with different scales of sales, promotion status, and sales uplifts due to promotion.
We develop an advanced baseline statistical forecast that is simple yet effective to capture the promotion impact to some extent. This model takes into account the most significant variable (the price of the products in this study) and fits a dynamic linear regression model. While we take into account the impact of price, other variables such as products display in the shelf, advertisement, weather, economic status, etc may impact sales. Providing all this information may not be helpful for experts to generate a more accurate forecasts and it is difficult to distinguish the relative impact of these variables on sales.  Moreover, these variable impact sales marginally. Therefore, we include all of them in a binary variable called “environmental impact” that takes either a positive or negative status. This can help experts in a Forecasting Support System (FSS) to lessen the cognitive load, and provide a consistent form of information for evaluation. 
We had 78 students took part in this experiment at the Monash behavioral business lab at Monash University. 

The experiment has been designed with R shiny app and hosted on RStudio. “Promotion status” shown in the purple box at the top right of the dashboard is the main variable that causes sales uplifts. It is a binary variable that takes either “Yes” or “No” representing promotion presence and absence, respectively. The orange box represents the variable “Environmental impact”. This variable summarizes the interaction of all other internal and external factors on sales such as company’s advertisement, location of the products in stores, and promotional activities. This simple summary can be a beneficial feature of a forecasting support system, given that providing lots of individual pieces of information might lead to information overload . This variable impacts demand marginally (up to 10% increase depending on the situation) and can take either “Positive” or “Negative” values. Positive meant to increase sales marginally, and “negative” decreases sales marginally. Note that, during major promotions, Environmental impact takes the value “Positive” as promoted products are often located in a good place in the stores and often are advertised. If so, it will increase sales marginally.  Environmental impact takes the “Negative” value in the absence of promotions or during the minor promotions. That means it may decrease sales marginally. The information is compacted into a binary variable that either has a positive or negative impact on sales. This is for the ease of experts as they may have difficulty in absorbing and relating the verbal information to the task.
 
Beside this information, participants were given a “statistical forecast” depicted in “blue” color. The statistical forecast may be of two types: “simple baseline forecast” or “advanced baseline forecast”. The “simple baseline statistical forecast” is the forecast generated by a software in the company, which uses “Holt-Winter exponential smoothing” model to forecast baseline sales in the absence of promotion and does not consider “promotion” and “environmental impact”. Whereas the “advanced baseline forecast” takes into account the impact of promotion but not “environmental impact” and uses a “dynamic linear regression” model to forecast sales.
We gather different informatoin such as pupil dialation from the participnats to investigate how their performance is associated with their attention to various informatoin in the screen. 
